
## Sanitize property keys

Using an allowlist of permitted keys is the most effective way to do this. However, as this is not feasible in many cases, it's common to use a blocklist instead, removing any potentially dangerous strings from user input.

A common mistake is failing to recursively sanitize the input string. For example, consider the following URL:

`vulnerable-website.com/?__pro__proto__to__.gadget=payload`

If the sanitization process just strips the string `__proto__` without repeating this process more than once, this would result in the following URL, which is a potentially valid prototype pollution source:

`vulnerable-website.com/?__proto__.gadget=payload`

## Prevent changes to global prototypes

nvoking the `Object.freeze()` method on an object ensures that its properties and their values can no longer be modified, and no new properties can be added. As prototypes are just objects themselves, you can use this method to proactively cut off any potential sources:

`Object.freeze(Object.prototype);`

The `Object.seal()` method is similar, but still allows changes to the values of existing properties. This may be a good compromise if you're unable to use `Object.freeze()` for any reason.

## Prevent an object from inheriting properties

While you can use `Object.freeze()` to block potential prototype pollution sources, you can also take measures to eliminate gadgets. This way, even if an attacker identifies a prototype pollution vulnerability, it is likely to be unexploitable.

By default, all objects inherit from the global `Object.prototype` either directly or indirectly via the prototype chain. However, you can also manually set an object's prototype by creating it using the `Object.create()` method. Not only does this let you assign any object you like as the new object's prototype, you can also create the object with a `null` prototype, which ensures that it won't inherit any properties at all.

```javascript
let myObject = Object.create(null);
Object.getPrototypeOf(myObject); // null
```

## Use safer alternatives where possible

Another robust defense against prototype pollution is to use objects that provide built-in protection. For example, when defining an options object, you could use a `Map` instead. Although a map can still inherit malicious properties, they have a built-in `get()` method that only returns properties that are defined directly on the map itself:

```javascript
Object.prototype.evil = 'polluted';
let options = new Map();
options.set('transport_url', 'https://normal-website.com');
options.evil; 
// 'polluted' options.get('evil'); 
// undefined options.get('transport_url'); 
// 'https://normal-website.com'
```

A `Set` is another alternative if you're just storing values rather than `key:value` pairs. Just like maps, sets provide built-in methods that only return properties that were defined directly on the object itself:

`Object.prototype.evil = 'polluted'; let options = new Set(); options.add('safe'); options.evil; // 'polluted'; option.has('evil'); // false options.has('safe'); // true`