## Summary

JWT are base64-encoded tokens that contain a header, a payload and a signature. JWT attacks aim to abuse access control and escalate privileges or impersonate other users.

JWT vulnerabilities arise when:
- The signature is not properly verified
- The secret key is leaked in some way
- The attacker is able to guess or bruteforce the secret key

## What are JWTs?

JSON web tokens (JWTs) are a standardized format for sending cryptographically signed JSON data between systems. They can theoretically contain any kind of data, but are most commonly used to send information ("claims") about users as part of authentication, session handling, and access control mechanisms.

Unlike with classic session tokens, all of the data that a server needs is stored client-side within the JWT itself. This makes JWTs a popular choice for highly distributed websites where users need to interact seamlessly with multiple back-end servers.

## JWT format

A JWT consits of a 3-part base64 string: a **header**, a **payload**, and a **signature**, separated by a dot `.` character.

## JWT signature

The server that issues the token typically generates the signature by hashing the header and payload. In some cases, they also encrypt the resulting hash. Either way, this process involves a secret signing key. This mechanism provides a way for servers to verify that none of the data within the token has been tampered with since it was issued:

-   As the signature is directly derived from the rest of the token, changing a single byte of the header or payload results in a mismatched signature.
-   Without knowing the server's secret signing key, it shouldn't be possible to generate the correct signature for a given header or payload.

## JWT vs JWS vs JWE

- JWT: JSON Web Token
- JWS: JSON Web Signature
- JWE: JSON Web Encryption

In other words, a JWT is usually either a JWS or JWE token. When people use the term "JWT", they almost always mean a JWS token. JWEs are very similar, except that the actual contents of the token are encrypted rather than just encoded.

## What are JWT attacks?

JWT attacks involve a user sending modified JWTs to the server in order to achieve a malicious goal. Typically, this goal is to bypass authentication and access controls by impersonating another user who has already been authenticated.

## What is the impact of JWT attacks?

The impact of JWT attacks is usually severe. If an attacker is able to create their own valid tokens with arbitrary values, they may be able to escalate their own privileges or impersonate other users, taking full control of their accounts.

## How do vulnerabilities to JWT attacks arise?

JWT vulnerabilities typically arise due to flawed JWT handling within the application itself. The various specifications related to JWTs are relatively flexible by design, allowing website developers to decide many implementation details for themselves. This can result in them accidentally introducing vulnerabilities even when using battle-hardened libraries.

These implementation flaws usually mean that the signature of the JWT is not verified properly. This enables an attacker to tamper with the values passed to the application via the token's payload. Even if the signature is robustly verified, whether it can truly be trusted relies heavily on the server's secret key remaining a secret. If this key is leaked in some way, or can be guessed or brute-forced, an attacker can generate a valid signature for any arbitrary token, compromising the entire mechanism.