## Summary

1. Flawed JWT signature verification
	1. The web server does not verify signature at all
	2. The attacker can set signature to none (leave a trailing dot!)
2. Brute force attacks
3. JWT header parameter injections
	1. jwt: the attacker can inject their own key by producing a RSA signature
	2. jku: the attacker can store jwt on their own web server
	3. kid: the attacker can inject the key path (directory traversal) 
	4. cty and x5c: interesting parameters, further analysis required.
4. Algorithm confusion
	  sign the token with a symmetric algorithm although the server was expecting an asymmetric algorithm.
	1. Obtain the server's public key
	2. Convert the public key to a suitable format (base64)
	3. Create a malicious JWT with a modified payload and the alg header set to HS256.
	4. Sign the token with HS256, using the public key as the secret.

## Exploiting flawed JWT signature verification

1. **Accepting arbitrary signatures**
	JWT libraries typically provide one method for verifying tokens and another that just decodes them. For example, the Node.js library `jsonwebtoken` has `verify()` and `decode()` Occasionally, developers confuse these two methods and only pass incoming tokens to the `decode()` method. This effectively means that the application doesn't verify the signature at all.

2. **Accepting tokens with no signature:**
	JWTs can be signed using a range of different algorithms, but can also be left unsigned. In this case, the `alg` parameter is set to `none`, which indicates a so-called "unsecured JWT". (leave a trailing dot on the base64 payload!)

## Brute-forcing secret keys

Just provide the JWT and a wordlist to hashcat: 

```shell
hashcat -a 0 -m 16500 <jwt> <wordlist>
```

If you run the command more than once, include `--show` to output results.

To sign the new JWT with the identified secret key:

1.  Using Burp Decoder, Base64 encode the secret that you brute-forced in the previous section.
2.  In Burp, go to the **JWT Editor Keys** tab and click **New Symmetric Key**. In the dialog, click **Generate** to generate a new key in JWK format. Note that you don't need to select a key size as this will automatically be updated later.
3.  Replace the generated value for the `k` property with the Base64-encoded secret.
4.  Click **OK** to save the key.

## JWT header parameter injections

The following parameters are particularly interesting to attackers:
-   `jwk` (JSON Web Key) - Provides an embedded JSON object representing the key.  
-   `jku` (JSON Web Key Set URL) - Provides a URL from which servers can fetch a set of keys containing the correct key.  
-   `kid` (Key ID) - Provides an ID that servers can use to identify the correct key in cases where there are multiple keys to choose from. Depending on the format of the key, this may have a matching `kid` parameter.

### Injecting via the jwt parameter

Consider the following JWT header:

```json
{
    "kid": "ed2Nf8sb-sD6ng0-scs5390g-fFD8sfxG",
    "typ": "JWT",
    "alg": "RS256",
    "jwk": {
        "kty": "RSA",
        "e": "AQAB",
        "kid": "ed2Nf8sb-sD6ng0-scs5390g-fFD8sfxG",
        "n": "yy1wpYmffgXBxhAUJzHHocCuJolwDqql75ZWuCQ_cb33K2vh9m"
    }
}
```

Ideally, servers should only use a limited whitelist of public keys to verify JWT signatures. However, misconfigured servers sometimes use any key that's embedded in the `jwk` parameter.

You can exploit this behavior by signing a modified JWT using your own RSA private key, then embedding the matching public key in the `jwk` header.

1.  With the extension loaded, in Burp's main tab bar, go to the **JWT Editor Keys** tab.
2.  Generate a new RSA key.
3.  Send a request containing a JWT to Burp Repeater.
4.  In the message editor, switch to the extension-generated **JSON Web Token** tab and modify the token's payload however you like.
5.  Click **Attack**, then select **Embedded JWK**. When prompted, select your newly generated RSA key.
6.  Send the request to test how the server responds.

### Injecting via the jku parameter

Instead of embedding public keys directly using the `jwk` header parameter, some servers let you use the `jku` (JWK Set URL) header parameter to reference a JWK Set containing the key. When verifying the signature, the server fetches the relevant key from this URL.

```json
{
    "keys": [
        {
            "kty": "RSA",
            "e": "AQAB",
            "kid": "75d0ef47-af89-47a9-9061-7c02a610d5ab",
            "n": "o-yy1wpYmffgXBxhAUJzHHocCuJolwDqql75ZWuCQ_cb33K2vh9mk6GPM9gNN4Y_qTVX67WhsN3JvaFYw-fhvsWQ"
        },
        {
            "kty": "RSA",
            "e": "AQAB",
            "kid": "d8fDFo-fS9-faS14a9-ASf99sa-7c1Ad5abA",
            "n": "fc3f-yy1wpYmffgXBxhAUJzHql79gNNQ_cb33HocCuJolwDqmk6GPM4Y_qTVX67WhsN3JvaFYw-dfg6DH-asAScw"
        }
    ]
}
```

JWK Sets like this are sometimes exposed publicly via a standard endpoint, such as `/.well-known/jwks.json`.

**Lab solution:**

##### Part 1 - Upload a malicious JWK Set
1.  In Burp, load the JWT Editor extension from the BApp store.
2.  In the lab, log in to your own account and send the post-login `GET /my-account` request to Burp Repeater.
3.  In Burp Repeater, change the path to `/admin` and send the request. Observe that the admin panel is only accessible when logged in as the `administrator` user.
4.  Go to the **JWT Editor Keys** tab in Burp's main tab bar.
5.  Click **New RSA Key**.
6.  In the dialog, click **Generate** to automatically generate a new key pair, then click **OK** to save the key. Note that you don't need to select a key size as this will automatically be updated later.
7.  In the browser, go to the exploit server.
8.  Replace the contents of the **Body** section with an empty JWK Set as follows:
    `{ "keys": [ ] }`
9.  Back on the **JWT Editor Keys** tab, right-click on the entry for the key that you just generated, then select **Copy Public Key as JWK**.
10.  Paste the JWK into the `keys` array on the exploit server, then store the exploit. The result should look something like this:
    `{ "keys": [ { "kty": "RSA", "e": "AQAB", "kid": "893d8f0b-061f-42c2-a4aa-5056e12b8ae7", "n": "yy1wpYmffgXBxhAUJzHHocCuJolwDqql75ZWuCQ_cb33K2vh9mk6GPM9gNN4Y_qTVX67WhsN3JvaFYw" } ] }`

##### Part 2 - Modify and sign the JWT
1.  Go back to the `GET /admin` request in Burp Repeater and switch to the extension-generated **JSON Web Token** message editor tab.
2.  In the header of the JWT, replace the current value of the `kid` parameter with the `kid` of the JWK that you uploaded to the exploit server.
3.  Add a new `jku` parameter to the header of the JWT. Set its value to the URL of your JWK Set on the exploit server.
4.  In the payload, change the value of the `sub` claim to `administrator`.
5.  At the bottom of the tab, click **Sign**, then select the RSA key that you generated in the previous section.
6.  Make sure that the **Don't modify header** option is selected, then click **OK**. The modified token is now signed with the correct signature.
7.  Send the request. Observe that you have successfully accessed the admin panel.
8.  In the response, find the URL for deleting Carlos (`/admin/delete?username=carlos`). Send the request to this endpoint to solve the lab.

### Injecting via the kid parameter

The kid parameter may help identify which key to use when verifying the signature. It could then be vulnerable to directory traversal attacks.

```json
{
    "kid": "../../path/to/file",
    "typ": "JWT",
    "alg": "HS256",
    "k": "asGsADas3421-dfh9DGN-AFDFDbasfd8-anfjkvc"
}
```

You could theoretically do this with any file, but one of the simplest methods is to use `/dev/null`, which is present on most Linux systems. As this is an empty file, reading it returns an empty string. Therefore, signing the token with a empty string will result in a valid signature.

**Attack summary:**
Step 1: generate symmetric key:
1. Generate new symmetric key in JWT Editor
2. Change the value of `k` to a base64 null-byte `AA==`
Step 2: prepare JWT:
3. Change the `kid` parameter to `../../../../../../../dev/null`
Step 3: win:
4. Click on sign, select the symmetric key generate, and make sure you **don't modity header**
5. Send the request

### Other JWT header parameters

-   `cty` (Content-Type): you can try injecting a `cty` header to change the content type to `text/xml` or `application/x-java-serialized-object`, which can potentially enable new vectors for [XXE](https://portswigger.net/web-security/xxe) and [deserialization](https://portswigger.net/web-security/deserialization) attacks.
-   `x5c` (X.509 Certificate Chain):  This header parameter can be used to inject self-signed certificates, similar to the [`jwk` header injection](https://portswigger.net/web-security/jwt#injecting-self-signed-jwts-via-the-jwk-parameter) attacks discussed above. For more details, check out [CVE-2017-2800](https://talosintelligence.com/vulnerability_reports/TALOS-2017-0293) and [CVE-2018-2633](https://mbechler.github.io/2018/01/20/Java-CVE-2018-2633).

## Algorithm confusion attacks

Algorithm confusion attacks (also known as key confusion attacks) occur when an attacker is able to force the server to verify the signature of a JSON web token (JWT) using a different algorithm than is intended by the website's developers. If this case isn't handled properly, this may enable attackers to forge valid JWTs containing arbitrary values without needing to know the server's secret signing key.

### Symmetric vs asymmetric algorithms

- Symmetric = same secret to sign and verify the token.
- Asymmetric = private key to sign the token and public key to verify the token.

### How do algorithm confusion vulnerabilities arise?

JWT libraries rely on the `alg` parameter to determine the type of verification they should perform.

Consider the following pseudo-code:

```java
function verify(token, secretOrPublicKey){
    algorithm = token.getAlgHeader();
    if(algorithm == "RS256"){
        // Use the provided key as an RSA public key
    } else if (algorithm == "HS256"){
        // Use the provided key as an HMAC secret key
    }
}
```

The problem is when developers using this method assume that it will exclusively handle JWTs signed using an asymmetric algorithm like RS256.

```java
publicKey = <public-key-of-server>;
token = request.getCookie("session");
verify(token, publicKey);
```

In this case, if the server receives a token signed using a symmetric algorithm like HS256, the library's generic `verify()` method will treat the public key as an HMAC secret. This means that an attacker could sign the token using HS256 and the public key, and the server will use the same public key to verify the signature.

*Note:* The public key you use to sign the token must be absolutely identical to the public key stored on the server. This includes using the same format (such as X.509 PEM) and preserving any non-printing characters like newlines. In practice, you may need to experiment with different formatting in order for this attack to work.

### Performing an algorithm confusion attack

#### Step 1 - Obtain the server's public key

Servers sometimes expose their public keys as JSON Web Key (JWK) objects via a standard endpoint mapped to `/jwks.json` or `/.well-known/jwks.json`, for example. These may be stored in an array of JWKs called `keys`. This is known as a JWK Set.

#### Step 2 - Convert the public key to a suitable format

For the purpose of this example, let's assume that we need the key in X.509 PEM format. You can convert a JWK to a PEM using the JWT Editor extension in Burp as follows:

1.  With the extension loaded, in Burp's main tab bar, go to the **JWT Editor Keys** tab.
2.  Click **New RSA** Key. In the dialog, paste the JWK that you obtained earlier.
3.  Select the **PEM** radio button and copy the resulting PEM key.
4.  Go to the **Decoder** tab and Base64-encode the PEM.
5.  Go back to the **JWT Editor Keys** tab and click **New Symmetric Key**.
6.  In the dialog, click **Generate** to generate a new key in JWK format.
7.  Replace the generated value for the `k` parameter with a Base64-encoded PEM key that you just copied.
8.  Save the key.

#### Step 3 - Modify your JWT

Once you have the public key in a suitable format, you can modify the JWT however you like. Just make sure that the `alg` header is set to `HS256`.

#### Step 4 - Sign the JWT using the public key

Sign the token using the HS256 algorithm with the RSA public key as the secret.

### Deriving public keys from existing tokens

In cases where the public key isn't readily available, you may still be able to test for algorithm confusion by deriving the key from a pair of existing JWTs. This process is relatively simple using tools such as `jwt_forgery.py`. You can find this, along with several other useful scripts, on the [`rsa_sign2n` GitHub repository](https://github.com/silentsignal/rsa_sign2n).

## How to prevent JWT attacks

You can protect your own websites against many of the attacks we've covered by taking the following high-level measures:

-   Use an up-to-date library for handling JWTs and make sure your developers fully understand how it works, along with any security implications. Modern libraries make it more difficult for you to inadvertently implement them insecurely, but this isn't foolproof due to the inherent flexibility of the related specifications.
-   Make sure that you perform robust signature verification on any JWTs that you receive, and account for edge-cases such as JWTs signed using unexpected algorithms.
-   Enforce a strict whitelist of permitted hosts for the `jku` header.
-   Make sure that you're not vulnerable to [path traversal](https://portswigger.net/web-security/file-path-traversal) or SQL injection via the `kid` header parameter.
    

### Additional best practice for JWT handling

Although not strictly necessary to avoid introducing vulnerabilities, we recommend adhering to the following best practice when using JWTs in your applications:
-   Always set an expiration date for any tokens that you issue.
-   Avoid sending tokens in URL parameters where possible.
-   Include the `aud` (audience) claim (or similar) to specify the intended recipient of the token. This prevents it from being used on different websites.
-   Enable the issuing server to revoke tokens (on logout, for example).