
When working with JWTs in Burp, it's highly recommended installing the **JWT Editor** extension. This extension includes:
- Automatic highlighting of any requests in the proxy history that cointain JWTs.
- An additional tab that lets you generate or upload cryptographic keys in a variety of formats.
- An additional message editor tab that lets you view and edit the JWT header and payload in raw, uneconded JSON.
- A feature for signing modified JWTs directly within Burp Repeater.

## Adding new signing keys

1.  Switch to the extension-generated **JWT Editor Keys** tab in Burp's main tab bar.
2.  On the right of the screen, click the relevant button for type of key that you want to add, for example, **New RSA Key**.
3.  In the dialog, you have the following options:
    -   Click **Generate** to automatically create a brand new key of the selected length.
    -   Paste an existing key. Depending on the type of key, you may be able to toggle between JWK and PEM representations. This also provides an easy way to convert between the two formats.
4.  Click **OK**. The key is saved to the extension's key store, which you can access from the **JWT Editor Keys** tab.

## Signing JWTs

1. Add a suitable key to the extension's key store.
2.  In Burp Repeater, use the **JSON Web Token** message editor tab to modify the JWT header and payload.
3.  At the bottom of the screen, click **Sign**.
4.  In the dialog, select the relevant signing key from the extension's key store.
5.  If necessary, select the signing algorithm that you want to use. This is normally updated automatically based on the type of key that you select, but you may want to modify this when performing algorithm confusion attacks. You also have options for automatically updating some of the JWT headers.
6.  Click **OK**. The JWT in the request is replaced with your modified one.