## What is an object in JavaScript?

A JavaScript object is essentially just a collection of `key:value` pairs known as "properties". For example, the following object could represent a user:

```javascript
const user = { 
	username: "wiener", 
	userId: 01234, 
	isAdmin: false 
}
```

To access the properties of an object, use either dot notation `user.username` or bracket notation `user['userId']` to refer to their respective keys:

```javascript
user.username  // "wiener"
user['userId'] // 01234
```

As well as data, properties may also contain executable functions. In this case, the function is known as a "method".

```javascript
const user = { 
	username: "wiener", 
	userId: 01234, 
	exampleMethod: function(){
		// do something 
	} 
}
```

## What is a prototype in JavaScript?

Every object in JavaScript is linked to another object of some kind, known as its prototype. By default, JavaScript automatically assigns new objects one of its built-in global prototypes.

```javascript
let myObject = {}; Object.getPrototypeOf(myObject); // Object.prototype 
let myString = ""; Object.getPrototypeOf(myString); // String.prototype 
let myArray = []; Object.getPrototypeOf(myArray); // Array.prototype 
let myNumber = 1; Object.getPrototypeOf(myNumber); // Number.prototype
```

**Objects automatically inherit all of the properties of their assigned prototype**, unless they already have their own property with the same key. This enables developers to create new objects that can reuse the properties and methods of existing objects.

**The built-in global prototypes provide useful properties and methods for working with basic data types**. For example, the `String.prototype` object has a `toLowerCase()` method. As a result, all strings automatically have a ready-to-use method for converting them to lowercase. This saves developers having to manually add this behavior to each new string that they create.

## How does object inheritance work in JavaScript?

Whenever you reference a property of an object, **the JavaScript engine first tries to access this directly on the object itself**. If the object doesn't have a matching property, **the JavaScript engine looks for it on the object's prototype instead**. Given the following objects, this enables you to reference `myObject.propertyA`

```javascript
let myObject = {};
```

if you type `myObject.` on the console, you will see a list of properties that this object has inherited, such as `__defineGetter__, __proto__, constructor, etc...`

## The prototype chain

Note that an object's prototype is just another object, which should also have its own prototype, and so on. As virtually everything in JavaScript is an object under the hood, this chain ultimately leads back to the top-level `Object.prototype`, whose prototype is simply `null`.

```javascript
let username = "user";
Object.getPrototypeOf(username); // String.prototype
Object.getPrototypeOf(username.__proto__); // Object.prototype
```

Crucially, **objects inherit properties not just from their immediate prototype**, but from all objects above them in the prototype chain. This means that, for example, the `username` object has access to the properties and methods of both `String.prototype` and `Object.prototype`.

## Accessing an object's prototype using __proto__

Every object has a special property that you can use to access its prototype. Although this doesn't have a formally standardized name, `__proto__` is the de facto standard used by most browsers. If you're familiar with object-oriented languages, this property serves as both a getter and setter for the object's prototype. This means you can use it to read the prototype and its properties, and even reassign them if necessary.

As with any property, you can access `__proto__` using either bracket or dot notation:

```javascript
username.__proto__ username['__proto__']
```

You can even chain references to `__proto__` to work your way up the prototype chain:

```javascript
username.__proto__ // String.prototype 
username.__proto__.__proto__ // Object.prototype
username.__proto__.__proto__.__proto__ // null
```

## Modifying prototypes

Although it's generally considered bad practice, it is possible to modify JavaScript's built-in prototypes just like any other object. This means developers can customize or override the behavior of built-in methods, and even add new methods to perform useful operations.

For example, modern JavaScript provides the `trim()` method for strings, which enables you to easily remove any leading or trailing whitespace. Before this built-in method was introduced, developers sometimes added their own custom implementation of this behavior to the `String.prototype` object by doing something like this:

```javascript
String.prototype.removeWhitespace = function(){ 
	// remove leading and trailing whitespace 
}
```

Thanks to the prototypal inheritance, all strings would then have access to this method:

```javascript
let searchTerm = " example "; 
searchTerm.removeWhitespace(); // "example"`
```

Custom function:

```javascript
String.prototype.myCustomProto = "hello world";
let username = "user";
console.log(username); // "user"
console.log(username.myCustomProto); // "hello world"
```