## Finding prototype pollution sources manually

1. Try to inject an abritraty property via the query string, URL fragment, and any web message data: 

```
http://vulnerable-website.com/?__proto__[foo]=bar
```

2. In your browser console, inspect the `Object.prototype` to see if you have successfully polluted it with your arbitrary proerty: 

```javascript
Object.prototype.foo 
// "bar" indicates success
// "undefined" indicates failure
```

3. If the property was not added to the global prototype, try using different techniques, such as switching to dot notation rather than bracker notation, or vice versa:

```
http://vulnerable-website.com/?__proto__.foo=bar
```

4. Repeat this process for each potential source.

## Finding prototype pollution sources using DOM Invader

Finding pollution sources manually can be tedious. You can use DOM Invader, which comes preinstalled with Burp's built-in browser.
https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/tools/dom-invader/prototype-pollution#detecting-sources-for-prototype-pollution

## Finding prototype pollution gadgets manually

Once you identified a source, it's time to look at gadgets.

1. Look through the source code and identify any properties that are used by the application or any libraries that it imports.
2. In Burp, intercept the response containing the JavaScript that you want to test.
3. Add a `debugger` statement at the start of the script.
4. In Burp's broswer, go to the page of which the target script is loaded. The `debugger` statement pauses execution of the script
5. While the script is still paused, switch to the console and enter the following command:

```javascript
Object.defineProperty(Object.prototype, 'YOUR-PROPERTY', {
	get() {
		console.trace();
		return 'polluted';
		}
})
```

6. Press the button to continue execution of the script and monitor the console
7. Expand the strack trace and use the provided link to jump to the line of code where the property is being read.
8. Using the browser's debugger controls, step through each phase of eecution to see if the property is passed to a sink, such as `innerHTML` or `eval()`.
9. Repeat this process for any properties that you think are potential gadgets.

## Finding prototype pollution gadgets with DOM Invader

Same as with sources, this can be automated.

https://portswigger.net/burp/documentation/desktop/tools/dom-invader/prototype-pollution#scanning-for-prototype-pollution-gadgets

## Prototype pollution via the constructor

Unless its prototype is set to `null`, every JavaScript object has a `constructor` property, which contains a reference to the constructor function that was used to create it. For example, you can create a new object either using literal syntax or by explicitly invoking the `Object()` constructor.

You can then reference the `Object()` constructor via the built-in `constructor` property.

Each constructor function has a `prototype` property, which points to the prototype that will be assigned to any objects created by this constructor.

```javascript
let myObjectLiteral = {};
let myObject = new Object();

myObjectLiteral.constructor; // function Object(){...}
myObject.constructor; // function Object(){...}

myObject.constructor.prototype // Object.protoype
```

As `myObject.constructor.prototype` is equivalent to `myObject.__proto__`, this provides an alternative vector for prototype pollution.

## Prototype pollution in external libraries

As we've touched on already, prototype pollution gadgets may occur in third-party libraries that are imported by the application. In this case, we strongly recommend using DOM Invader's prototype pollution features to identify sources and gadgets. Not only is this much quicker, it also ensures you won't miss vulnerabilities that would otherwise be extremely tricky to notice.